# ***Expressions and Operators***

*This chapter describes JavaScript's expressions and operators, including assignment, comparison, arithmetic, bitwise, logical, string, ternary and more. At a high level, an expression is a valid unit of code that resolves to a value. There are two types of expressions: those that have side effects (such as assigning values) and those that purely evaluate. The expression x = 7 is an example of the first type. This expression uses the = operator to assign the value seven to the variable x. The expression itself evaluates to 7. The expression 3 + 4 is an example of the second type. This expression uses the + operator to add 3 and 4 together and produces a value, 7. However, if it's not eventually part of a bigger construct (for example, a variable declaration like const z = 3 + 4), its result will be immediately discarded — this is usually a programmer mistake because the evaluation doesn't produce any effects.*

***An assignment operator** assigns a value to its left operand based on the value of its right operand. The simple assignment operator is equal (=), which assigns the value of its right operand to its left operand. That is, x = f() is an assignment expression that assigns the value of f() to x. If an expression evaluates to an object, then the left-hand side of an assignment expression may make assignments to properties of that expression.*

## ***Destructuring***
*For more complex assignments, **the destructuring assignment** syntax is a JavaScript expression that makes it possible to extract data from arrays or objects using a syntax that mirrors the construction of array and object literals.*

## ***Evaluation and Nesting***
*In general, assignments are used within a variable declaration (i.e., with const, let, or var) or as standalone statements). However, like other expressions, assignment expressions like x = f() evaluate into a result value. Although this result value is usually not used, it can then be used by another expression. Chaining assignments or nesting assignments in other expressions can result in surprising behavior. For this reason, some JavaScript style guides discourage chaining or nesting assignments). Nevertheless, assignment chaining and nesting may occur sometimes, so it is important to be able to understand how they work. By chaining or nesting an assignment expression, its result can itself be assigned to another variable. It can be logged, it can be put inside an array literal or function call, and so on.*

## ***Avoid Assignment Chains***
*Chaining assignments or nesting assignments in other expressions can result in surprising behavior. For this reason, chaining assignments in the same statement is discouraged). In particular, putting a variable chain in a const, let, or var statement often does not work. Only the outermost/leftmost variable would get declared; other variables within the assignment chain are not declared by the const/let/var statement.*

## ***Short-circuit Evaluation***
*As logical expressions are evaluated left to right, they are tested for possible "short-circuit" evaluation using the following rules: false && anything is short-circuit evaluated to false.
true || anything is short-circuit evaluated to true.
The rules of logic guarantee that these evaluations are always correct. Note that the anything part of the above expressions is not evaluated, so any side effects of doing so do not take effect. Note that for the second case, in modern code you can use the Nullish coalescing operator (??) that works like ||, but it only returns the second expression, when the first one is "nullish", i.e. null or undefined. It is thus the better alternative to provide defaults, when values like '' or 0 are valid values for the first expression, too.*